Profile hardware -  Draft Hardware Profile Submission (#947)
spdx/spdx-3-model: model/Hardware/Hardware.md

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Hardware

> ## Summary
> The Hardware Profile provides additional metadata, that is useful for hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary

The Hardware Profile provides additional metadata that is useful for hardware.
```

> ## Description
> The Hardware namespace defines concepts related to hardware, including virtual hardware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Description

The Hardware namespace defines concepts related to hardware, including virtual hardware.
```

preparation process, its characteristics, and its access methods.

> ## Metadata
> - id: https://spdx.org/rdf/3.1.0/terms/Hardware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Metadata

- id: https://spdx.org/rdf/3.1.0/terms/Hardware
```

- name: Hardware

> ## Profile conformance
> For an element collection to be conformant with this profile,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Profile conformance

For an element collection to be conformant with this profile,
```

the following has to hold:

1. for every `/Hardware/InstantiatedProcess` there MUST exist exactly one
   `/Core/Relationship` of type `instantiatedBy` having that element as its
   `from` property and a `/Hardware/VirualHardware` as its `to`
   
2. for every `/Hardware/HBOMPhysical` If the property mass is defined then massUnit must be defined.

> 3. For evert `/Hardware/HBOMPhysical` If the property dimensions and centerofMass is defined then both centerofMass and dimensions have the same coordinateorientationType for x, y, and z.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. For evert `/Hardware/HBOMPhysical` If the property dimensions and centerOfMass is
   defined then both centerOfMass and dimensions have the same
   coordinateOrientationType for x, y, and z.
```

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Hardware

## Summary

The Hardware Profile provides additional metadata that is useful for hardware.

## Description

The Hardware namespace defines concepts related to hardware, including virtual hardware,
supply chain and its characteristics.

## Metadata

- id: https://spdx.org/rdf/3.1.0/terms/Hardware
- name: Hardware

## Profile conformance

For an element collection to be conformant with this profile,
the following has to hold:

1. for every `/Hardware/InstantiatedProcess` there MUST exist exactly one
   `/Core/Relationship` of type `instantiatedBy` having that element as its

>    `from` property and a `/Hardware/VirualHardware` as its `to`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `from` property and a `/Hardware/VirualHardware` as its `to`.
```

> 2. for every `/Hardware/HBOMPhysical` If the property mass is defined then massUnit must be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. for every `/Hardware/HBOMPhysical`, if the property `mass` is defined then
   `massUnit` must be defined.
```

> 3. For evert `/Hardware/HBOMPhysical` If the property dimensions and centerOfMass is
>    defined then both centerOfMass and dimensions have the same
>    coordinateOrientationType for x, y, and z.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. for every `/Hardware/HBOMPhysical`, if the properties `dimensions` and
   `centerOfMass` are defined then both `dimensions` and `centerOfMass`
   must have the same `coordinateOrientationType` for x, y, and z.
```

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Hardware

## Summary

The Hardware Profile provides additional metadata, that is useful for hardware.

## Description

The Hardware namespace defines concepts related to hardware, including virtual hardware
preparation process, its characteristics, and its access methods.

## Metadata

- id: https://spdx.org/rdf/3.1.0/terms/Hardware
- name: Hardware

## Profile conformance

For an element collection to be conformant with this profile,
the following has to hold:

> 1. for every `/Hardware/Hardware` The property listed under the physical are not available if virtualFlag = true

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better to have different classes, `VirtualHardware` and `PhysicalHardware` (or whatever you want to name them) and have the corresponding properties in the corresponding classes. You may have an abstract `Hardware` superclass for the common properties.

Author: We will discuss this issue with the HBOM group  January 10. What is the main reason for your suggestion?
